this is not a live stream about quitting
video games so much as it is a live
stream talking about
giving advice on youtube that nobody
wants to hear including
coming on youtube and encouraging people
to quit video games encouraging people
to lead a more meaningful life
and uh i've got an email from a fellow
youtuber called valshimanov and that's
the name of his youtube channel his name
his name is youtube channel i've
mentioned him before my channel i've
shown clips before and i've given a link
to his channel before you'll get a link
uh
in the description of this very video
while this live stream is ongoing if you
want to see who i'm talking about he has
a rather fetching beard and he speaks
english with a with a heavy accent well
you sent me an email that i'm going to
read out to you here in just a moment
i think something most people
aren't consciously aware of
is that what the vast majority of
successful people are doing on youtube
is not preaching against something but
preaching for something even if what it
is they're preaching for is abominably
shallow and crass and stupid
um
the most successful channels dealing
with veganism
are not the ones that tell you
to be vegan they are instead channels
that just show off hey here's a
beautiful woman in a bikini
and there's some implicit level on which
this woman is getting it across or
letting it be known that the way she
maintains her figure the reason why she
looks so good in a bikini
is because she eats a vegan diet
i as you can guess i do not approve of
this kind of content i do not watch this
kind of content myself
and it's very easy to come on youtube
thousands of people do this every year
to see that kind of success story and
then think oh me too i can also put on a
bikini i can also put on this kind of
performance and i will also have wealth
fame money the adoration of the masses
now the way i use youtube is very
different from other people i'm very
often searching for something quite
specific that i want to use in a youtube
video or just something i'm interested
in
in real life like lately i've searched
within youtube for like
los angeles
harbor or like you know los angeles
vegan restaurant near the harbor or
something assumptive just search for
something very specific within youtube
and that will turn up in the search
results
examples of channels that in this way
were pursuing mainstream success and
that had
all of the obvious physical and
aesthetic features that would bring
about this kind of mainstream success
and that nevertheless completely failed
so
you know i could try to remember what it
was i was searching for under under
different headaches but uh just
yesterday there was one channel and the
the woman on camera was completely
gorgeous blonde in the prime of her life
and the only video she had that had any
views at all was one of these try on
haul videos where the thumbnail was
showing her like 90 naked try on
and you know yeah a small percentage of
the viewers who click on that are
interested in the clothes you're wearing
i think you know these women they talk
about the clothes they've been buying
and a large percent of them are men who
are interested looking at your your
largely naked body i i don't know i
don't know why anyone does this on
youtube i mean is it people who are like
at the office
and like their their boss at work only
lets their computer go to certain types
of websites because if you want to look
at naked women on the internet there are
websites other than youtube they're
devoted to that but it seems there's
still a huge huge mark of this but it
was a completely gorgeous young woman
and um
uh you know there were palm trees in the
background sort of all the all the
shallow things you associate with uh
with the successful youtube channel and
she has a boyfriend and the boyfriend
has exactly the kind of beard that's in
fashion in 2021 this sort of you know
fashionable beautiful couple
and i would assume they are consciously
rather than unconsciously imitating the
success of other youtube channels and
other other instagram uh models or what
have you
and the videos on this channel had 11
views
22 views 50 views like
video by video this was not even
successful amongst you know your this
person's own friend group uh because you
know your friends and family and people
you've known on facebook for 20 years or
something those add up to quite a few
views if you're kind of a normal person
who's been on social media since the day
you were born
which in 2021 is
is most people uh
you know
my my point here being that um
the vast majority of successful youtube
channels are not preaching
sobriety are not preaching hard work are
not preaching quitting video games right
they're just showing you a beautiful
person climbing a mountain or a
beautiful person uh swimming in the
ocean on vacation in the azores islands
or whatever the example is they're
showing you beautiful people doing
beautiful things
and then at some point there's a hook
where they try to sell you their their
lifestyle package they try to rope the
audience into to imitating them right
now there's a much smaller number of uh
youtube channels that are instead giving
an explicitly negative message and now
that message takes many forms but it
might be for example someone saying that
hey they used to be an alcoholic
don't be an alcoholic don't waste your
life the same way they did someone
coming on camera saying they used to be
a drug addict someone coming on camera
saying they used to be a video game
addict or someone coming on camera and
just saying hey they squandered positive
opportunities in their life because of
what it was they were doing
once in a while i've seen hit videos
which is someone just coming on talking
about how he ruined his life by cheating
on his girlfriend you know
once in a while you see this where it's
an explicitly negative message saying
don't be like me
and then there's the hook right then
there's the hook is instead imitate my
my positive uh lifestyle
the number of successful examples of
that the number of examples that find an
audience is very small and again you can
search for it i often do you can search
within youtube for any particular topic
like that you're going to find the vast
majority of those or videos that only
reach that person's own friends and
family that reach this very very small
uh you know audience so just say this is
you know
part of the overall insanity of social
media is that even if the message you
have to deliver is fundamentally
negative if you are giving advice that
nobody wants to hear
most
you are doing it by packaging it in a
form
or it seems like it's presenting you
with something you do want to hear right
i mean fundamentally outside of a
religious context it's very very hard to
gather an audience to keep an audience
or to earn money out of commanding the
attention of an audience by telling
people that they things that they don't
want to hear and i think all of us no
matter what culture you're from
you're influenced by the pulpit you're
influenced by the religious format of
preaching and by the way i used to be a
scholar of buddhism i am not just
talking about christian culture i'm not
just talking about muslim culture or
jewish culture
growing up in a buddhist context you
grew up in a place like thailand or
something too you are familiar with
preaching you were familiar with what it
is to have people you know trying to
trying to change your
change your way of living yeah i
remember i knew on i think i've told
this story before five years ago or
something i knew one very passionate but
very stupid uh buddhist monk who spoke
english with a with a thick accent and
that's what he was saying oh
you gotta change your way on living
everything he said in english was
grammatically wrong but it was very
passionate it was very sincere and he
would always remember he wouldn't tell
people to stop eating meat
he would say oh
you cut meat
you cannot cut meat you have to stop
cutting me
and i don't know if it was intentional i
don't know if his mind is a buddhist
monk it was the act of cutting meat that
caused bad karma rather than eating meat
but the his episode was to cut meat was
an evil act as opposed to buying it or
eating it you know oh no you gotta
change your way of living you cut meat
oh you drink alcohol
[Laughter]
now sorry just to close the loop on on
that
even in the buddhist context
of men wearing buddhist robes allegedly
living in celibacy allegedly eating only
two meals per day you know they're
different strictures and buddhism
allegedly never wearing shoes it's very
controversial
in each buddhist country depending on
which monastic order you sign up with
the rules for when you can and cannot
wear shoes are different but
it's interesting
it's not that interesting
another one is actually whether or not
you shave your eyebrows that's the
difference between the different
disorders
do you just shave your head or do you
shave your eyebrows also
you'll notice these things the buddhist
monks distinguish themselves you know so
people who are in the know could tell oh
i could i can tell you with the cm
nikaya because you shave your eyebrows
you can tell which which monastic word
there was
um
once you get involved in buddhism you
may be shocked and horrified at the
extent to which it operates very much
like youtube instagram social media
i was shocked
really shocked when i saw a particular
poster in thailand for the first time
which was a buddhist monk he was a very
skinny old man in a robe
and he was literally pouring out a bag
full of gold coins
and what it said in thai approximately
was like basically like if you pray to
me or if you worship me you will never
lack money like you'll always have
plenty of money
this is just just you see this
completely shamelessly in in buddhism in
thailand just straight up if you donate
money to the buddhist church you'll get
rich like donate money to buddhist monks
and magically the good karma will come
back to you and and you'll get wealthy
um
you know remember a sermon that i heard
it's not worth telling the whole story i
wasn't in the temple but a lot of
temples they have a microphone and
loudspeakers and sermon was just like oh
you know
uh people say they're too busy to come
to the temple and you know
but if you you know if you come to the
temple and you do meditation and you do
prayer and you donate money to the to
the temple you know good good things
will happen to you you'll get money
you'll get rich you'll find a new
beautiful woman yeah this kind of
promise of good karma bring good things
into your life
so yeah i mean down to and including
getting laid like improve your sex life
look better in a bikini through buddhist
virtue you would be surprised and you
might be appalled at the extent to which
you know even in a buddhist monastic
context things start to resemble the
social media influencers method okay so
just to say a little bit about val this
guy valerie shimanov
he is doing youtube videos in his second
language you can imagine how much harder
it would be for me to record youtube
videos
in chinese or in french or in german in
any language in english
but if you can put up with his accent
he does have some interesting ideas here
and there in these videos and he's
giving a consistently negative message
he talks about the ways in which his own
past playing video games ruined his life
and then he talks about positively why
you have to quit video games you know
the importance of quitting videos the
mentality of the video game addict and
how to overcome it
to give you an example that i thought
was really meaningful and i drew my
girlfriend's attention to it and then i
played it he had an observation in a
recent video
where he just said you know people who
play video games tell themselves that
they're building up their
problem-solving skills you know that
they're learning how to
solve
problems they're making themselves more
intelligent or more effective people
through through problem solving
but in real life
you don't have these kinds of predefined
problems where there's a right and a
wrong answer or there's one way out of
the maze you know the type of problems
you're facing in video games in a really
profound way profound and not
necessarily obvious way
they're totally different from the way
problem solving works in real life
anyway he doesn't say a lot more about
that he says this brief observation
that um
no the problem-solving skills you're
practicing video games are radically
incompatible with problem solving anyway
i i paused the video and i said to
melissa i said to my girlfriend here i
said
it's so true
you know in real life
your problem is like you're sitting on
the couch with your boyfriend and you're
unhappy and you don't know why
you know you're waking up and going to
your job and you hate your job and you
don't know what the problem is and you
don't know what to do about it like you
you whatever you wake up and you
you have a pile of books you haven't
read or something like there's there's
no particular problem with a particular
solution in life you want to jump in
yeah i was just going to say yesterday i
was watching a walkthrough of an old nes
game it was literally just like you have
to follow the circle the
right well you know i remember saying to
my my old friends i had a friend named
jamie smith he's now a university
professor
i've invited him to come on the channel
and he never will he's the guy who knew
me when i was a kid i've always thought
that would be interesting i don't know
if you guys would too i mean thumbs up
if you think that would be interesting i
think it would be interesting for me to
be in a dialogue with like via skype
presumably wouldn't be someone who knew
me
before all this [ __ ] i mean before i had
a shaved head even you know what i mean
before
someone who knew what a scumbag i was
before you know
before i got in the path of
righteousness in my ebook
[Laughter]
before i became fully enlightened as you
can be too for 1999
before i started doing 200 push-ups a
day buy my ebook learn how to do 200
push-ups today
eat my diet do my push-up regimen anyway
uh i remember talking to my my friend
and uh my my ex-friend he was we were
friends while we were kids this was uh
after i had finished my ba but he hadn't
finished his yet so toward the end of
the university time period
um
and uh
he said something positive about some
video game he was addicted to at the
time i told civilization four or so
whatever some video game at that time it
was some video he wasn't ashamed of
playing that's why i suggested a
civilization iv because it was one of
those games
as opposed to oh yeah pictures of women
with big breasts bouncing up and down
which is a lot of video games but i
think it was something slightly more
erudite that he didn't feel embarrassed
saying he was addicted to
and uh but anyway he mentioned a couple
video games he'd been addicted to in
recent years
and i said at that time i was playing no
video games at all video games were not
a part of my life at all whereas today
they have a small part of my life partly
because i have a daughter blah blah
and um
i said to him you know
this whole process of playing a video
game
it's just like a lion tamer
holding up a hoop
and saying jump through the hoop
and then the next level
they're holding the hoop a little higher
or the whole little further away or now
there are two hoops for you to jump
through but this this issue of you know
problem solving these predefined
problems and what was interesting so
this is for me this is not a very
interesting observation like of course
it's obvious a video game is created by
a human being as a series of
problem-solving challenges like a human
being is in the position of a lion theme
right what was interesting to me was
that he was completely baffled about
this he had never thought of using what
what do you mean like he really was
shocked to hear this this was totally
alien to totally different from his his
way of thinking about video games and
about his own life you know but anyway
the next phase of that argument the
point i was raising with the question is
you know but if you do this like you're
engaged in a process of training but
what is it that you are in the process
of training yourself to do
you know and and like you know there is
a skill set it's just a completely
useless skill set mario 64 uh zelda like
whatever example we're gonna use like
you know oh yeah you get really good at
you know some of the puzzle games you
get really good at matching up these
[ __ ] puzzle pieces but it has it has
no connection to anything you can ever
use in real life it also doesn't have
any connection to any redeeming
moral intellectual qualities like moral
quality intellectual qualities emotional
qualities doesn't make you a better
person in any of those ways no by the
way i'm skeptical about about claims of
what kind of exercises could but i mean
you can imagine at least i mean if
you're actually doing math problems
you're getting better at math there's
somebody but you're not doing math
problems you know
yeah right shout out to donkey kong math
the only educational game on the
nintendo entertainment system there was
one other there were only two
educational games on the nes donkey kong
math and there's one in japanese
involving popeye it's pretty much like
popeye learns the alphabet but it's in
japanese it's not nice
you want to say this no i just
how would this translate into your life
like oh okay if you reach this stage if
you if you get through this hoop then
get like this is how you view life like
it's
it's just not right well and i think
what what val is into is pointing out
the ways you know the ways in which this
actually has a corrosive effect in your
life because that is that is the type of
goal orientation you have that is the
type of problem-solving mentality you
have instead of the type of
problem-solving uh you know
mentality one ought to have
which again like look so you know just
to talk about my own life briefly we'll
come back to val we'll come back to
quitting videos talk back to as you say
the fundamental topic of this video is
not quitting video games but giving
people advice they don't want to hear
on youtube with video games being a
great example
you know um
when i finished high school
i just mentioned the high school i went
to was bad i didn't go to a good high
school
um
and everyone had built up my education
supported me everyone had built up my
expectations
that the quality of education at
university would be higher
and i was just devastated when i got to
university
the university i went to was back
i got to university and everything was
worse so like you know you're in high
school you're like okay this is the
quality of education i'm getting this is
terrible but everyone's telling me just
put up with it just tolerate it because
just in a couple years you're gonna get
to university and then this is gonna be
wonderful then it gets university and
it's abominably terrible like i can
really see the ways in which university
education
in this particular circumstance that
it's worse than what i had in high
school
you know what's the problem what's the
solution like you are just sitting there
on your couch in my case i was sitting
on the floor i didn't have a couch those
are my years of not having any furniture
when i just sit on the floor and sleep
on the floor
but i'm sitting on the floor thinking
what the hell am i supposed to do
now you know so that's mostly thinking
about the professors and the courses and
and also my own future like what am i
going to do with the rest of my life
because it's not a short-term problem
that's incredibly long-term implications
now look everyone also assured me that
when i went to university there'd be
lots of brilliant intelligent people
unlike my high school and by the way
there were some brilliant people in my
high school like amongst the students
there were
because high school was a random sample
of the population right and and some of
the brilliant people in high school were
poor
and some of them didn't finish high
school you know some of them were you
know strong characters who didn't want
to submit to authority and who you know
defied the teachers and you know but i
met all kinds of brilliant strong-willed
people in high school and now i get to
university and everyone is stupider and
everyone is shallower like what's the
problem what am i going to do so sorry
melissa i think the the example you're
using was it's that old nes game uh a
tropic
oh god the tropical island game and the
sequel is called revenge of zoda
star tropics star tropics shout out to
star tropics anyway
and like the nature of star trek is okay
you walk into a room there is a closed
door you could either go this way or
like you know this completely predefined
puzzle with the beginning of the limited
solution and it's presented to you it's
self evident to you this is the problem
this is the room you're in this is the
door you need to go through right in
real life there is no door
there is no objective there is you know
you are just sitting there like wow
everyone lied to me you know including
my parents and my parents went through
university
not even in the 1960s i think the 19
like sorry there's a big gap between my
my mother's younger than my father but
anyway they went back they went to
university in a different world like you
know to what extent they were
intentionally lying to me to what extent
it was rose-colored glasses about their
childhood and to what extent it just
reflected what universities were like in
the 1940s
this is a this is just different you
know oh it just just doesn't apply so
you know here i am sitting there is no
you know the level doesn't start the
level doesn't end there is no door there
is no puzzle there is no solution this
is your life what are you gonna do
homeboy and look and i just i just want
to say i mean i i think i have alluded
this before i had several years when i
was in university when i was in the ba
where i was overtly suicidal where it
was that bad where it's like you know i
don't know what i'm going to do with the
rest of my life with this crushing
disappointment and the burden on me of
trying to do something about it i'm you
know i'm not saying this was some minor
trivial thing i'm laughing about it now
i wasn't laughing then
and nobody helped me and nobody made it
better i went and talked to a
psychiatrist i was a psychiatrist on the
campus didn't have [ __ ] to say he had no
way to help me
there's nothing i've said before there
is no professional help it's like yeah
guess what i don't have a psychological
problem i have a real life problem i
don't have an emotional problem this is
a real [ __ ] problem bro and you know
again you're you know it's just it's
just radically radically compatible with
the world view that's brought on by by
playing video games
if you play those games when you're a
child
you'll remember the order in which
you're supposed to
so when you're a child you have this
opportunity to learn the steps or like
problem solving skills that you can
apply to your real life
but instead a lot of children are
learning it through this you're
memorizing this stuff in video games it
stays there forever yeah
well when you read about ancient
cultures too
um
you know it may seem surprising or
difficult to believe all these children
in china memorized these classical texts
you know all these children in india
memorized the whole text of the vedas
within buddhism they they memorized this
poetry from buddhism stuff yeah you can
memorize literature the same way by the
way we still memorize songs many people
growing up you memorize all the lyrics
to a whole series of pop songs but yeah
you will you are memorizing things in
video games that are at best useless to
you
but at worst you know actually harmful
okay just gonna turn to the comments in
the audience for a second
yeah so close says i don't know where
close is that close says quote in my
country people shame you if you play
video games and you're an adult man
good i mean i just mentioned you know
like you know we we believe i'm saying
we just meaning melissa and i i'm not
speaking for a larger movement i really
do believe in progress through shame i
think a lot of forms of social progress
and personal progress come through shame
and you know frankly when you talk to
people in positions of authority uh
someone like university professor very
often shame is the only lever you have
to use in them you can say them look
aren't you ashamed you know are you
ashamed this is
oh shout out to common sense skeptic
there's a there's a guy who's addicted
to video games comments common sense
skeptic what up tell me
what is the last video game you played
skeptic you know i'm getting that vibe
from you that you did some kind of
boring math or engineering degree and
you know i mean either when you went
through university you were addicted to
video games or it was cocaine
that's the vibe i'm getting for you uh
there's a famous um a medical doctor who
gives advice about psychology and he's a
very harsh critic of drugs like prozac
his name is peter bregen so he's famous
for basically telling people look solve
your problems in real life with your
emotions don't take prozac don't take
this that's generally his his approach
that's that's what he's famous for and
uh he has an anecdote i'm sure he's told
it at many different lectures that he
once gave a lecture like this and he was
giving a comparison between getting
addicted to psychiatric medication
solving problems and getting addicted to
cocaine
you know so you could imagine somewhat
amusing anecdote
and then the lecture ends and he said a
man stood up from the audience and this
was a very erudite audience where pretty
much everyone had a phd everyone was
either a psychiatrist or a
psychotherapist or some kind of
researcher at university and a man got
up the audience furious at him walked up
to him as he came down from the podium
and he said how dare you say that about
cocaine if it weren't for cocaine i
would have never worked my way through
graduate school
and he turned around and walked out
serious this guy was like saying like he
would have never finished medical school
without cooking
now why do i tell this this now
uh
to be fair i don't hear anyone speaking
that positively about video games
like i know and that guy was not joking
and i can imagine
a friend of a friend i won't say who
this is
i have a female friend
who slept with
the lead singer of a famous band a
famous music group
and um that guy talked to her openly
about the fact that like one of their
albums it was a hit album they made it
would have never been recorded without
cocaine said the way that cocaine
brought everyone together and got them
focused i mean it's a stimulant drug you
know that in terms of that you said that
album
wouldn't and then i think it was their
last album or their last successful
album and then the band fell apart so
you know no
i'm i'm against cocaine don't don't do
cocaine say no to drugs in case you
haven't seen my other videos i'm not but
i would just mention i don't know
anything that positive that comes out of
video games like the sense in which
there's something positive to be said
about taking coffee taking adderall
taking stimulants or whatever i've never
even seen i've never i don't think
anyone would even say as a joke that
they wouldn't have finished medical
school or they wouldn't have finished
graduate school or something uh without
without playing video games because it's
such a negative drain on your life
anyway so common sense skeptic says he
personally worked through jobs to get
through school well he said he had he
had three jobs you see so that's the
kind of [ __ ] you are you're one of
those resentful blue-collar hard-working
[ __ ] you're one of those i earned
this [ __ ] and you will you will never
be the kind of cool relaxed aristocrat
that i am who can just openly say my
parents paid for [ __ ] okay
[ __ ] [ __ ] you and you're through [ __ ]
you
just just stay on topic uh you know my
parents when i was a kid were poor they
were flat broke when i was a kid and
that relates to the fact that my father
had nine kids so he got so many women
pregnant whatever but it doesn't just it
also relates to the fact that my parents
had been communists
subject for another video but my parents
were not moderate communists they were
extremists so even other communists
considered them crazy they were really
pro-mass murderer type
extremist communists so naturally during
that time of their life they did not
earn a lot of money my dad had a bunch
of kids and he had a bunch of cult-like
beliefs this is a pretty reliable um
formula for poverty
anyway
then
i guess like right at the end of my time
in high school no no be honest i was
gonna say they started getting money in
my last year of high school
really they didn't have money to spend
until i was in university i was in
university for years and years felt like
a long time and it was a long time that
i was at university
they started having money to spend
while i was in a ba
and again
see there's another cause of poverty all
my brothers and sisters are older than
me
so they were paying for my older
sister's tuition and at least one of my
older brothers at the time maybe two
was also going to university so they
were paying a lot of money that way so
they only started having money to burn
while i was a university student
and still they had all these all these
impositions on them but then beyond that
there's your parents own attitude like
however much or however little money
your parents have are they willing to
spend it to support you and when i
started university my parents had the
worst [ __ ] attitude which was of no
you should go and work 40 hours a week
at starbucks and i did that in my first
year university and it almost ruined my
whole education and ruined my whole life
so i was working at starbucks and some
days you have to wake up at 5 30 in the
morning to do the opening shift and some
days you have to work until past
midnight to do the closing shift and it
made it completely impossible to learn
anything at a university completely
impossible
and my parents did not give a [ __ ] so i
had the experience for one year
i think something like that a year and
three months some of that of working at
starbucks while being university student
and i was living at home with my parents
i didn't have an apartment i wasn't
paying rent or something and i wasn't
living in university uh
in residence wasn't living in a dorm and
you know at some point i just had to
turn to my parents and say look this is
this is ridiculous like you know there
there is no point in me going to
university at all i just had to rebel
against them
and
that was a source of conflict and hatred
and resentment between me and my
parents for like 20 years
like
sorry at least 15 years later you know i
could figure out how many years it was i
remember this is before my father i
remember my mother still attacking me
for this that i had somehow betrayed the
family or let them down by quitting my
job at starbucks instead of dropping out
of university to just work at starbucks
full-time
like that was how [ __ ] up and demented
my parents were about like the value of
education versus the value of a minimum
wage job what's supposedly a part-time
job but it takes over your whole life so
anyway yeah and um
in that same period as i mentioned my
parents started having money to burn so
you know my mom bought a fur coat
literally my father bought a new car
like there were all these signs they
started going on vacation to exotic
places and stuff it's like dude if you
have money for a fur coat and a car
it does not make sense for me to ruin my
education really ruin the rest of my
life by dropping out of university to
work for a minimum wage at a coffee shop
so it was a big it was a big call but i
saw i saw both sides of that but yes
whether you are at cambridge university
or oxford or the university of toronto
um
there is a certain kind of [ __ ]
character that's formed by these guys
who worked three part-time jobs well
while putting themselves through school
so yeah
whether that's better or worse than
being a video game addict or a cocaine
addict is definitely an interesting
topic for discussion
uh common sense skeptics says when the
we came out they had a series of games
called rock band and we bought the full
kit melissa will you get the the balance
board for me
we we have a nintendo wii
and the only
game we ever use it for is we fit
so a couple days ago the gym was too
full i i'm we fit is all right man it's
like
oh
there's some quality hardware you know
yeah we have uh wii fit if you want to
do push-ups with a computer counting the
number of push-ups you're doing so we we
do own a wii and i've carried it all
around the world for my for my daughter
so my daughter used to play kirby with
me on that wii and we have the balance
board i don't know if we'll still be
able to own this we may have to throw
this stuff in the garbage next time we
move apartments but anyway he says on
the wii there was a game called rock
band and we bought the full kit drums
keyboards guitar and it carried five
people at a time so that's i never i
never heard of that so obviously that's
some kind of simulated
you know instrument game you know rhythm
game or whatever so they go
well showed it to the nintendo wii
and uh they played the instance in time
but then uh
well that's it so he was saying there is
some
uh
educational value but obviously they
were already trained musicians uh
playing the playing the games together
okay so i'm going to read now and
respond to this email from val
there's a link to val in the description
of el shimanov
dear eisel hello exclamation point thank
you for commenting on one of my videos i
just sent him a comment saying hey i'm
glad to see you're uploading videos
again he paused for some months or a
better part of the year i think yeah
i quote i truly respect your dedication
to the work you do on your channel and
your consistency with your project
you raise a lot of complicated issues
that few people have the courage to
bring up i've also noticed more streams
and longer content on your channel and
that is great
i also thank you for the stream of
subscribers maybe 50 to 75 people that
started following my channel after you
posted a video with a link to my channel
a year ago when i just started right so
as mentioned you can follow the link in
this channel too
uh quote i would also like to share with
you one of my thoughts which bothers my
mind
after spending some time studying the
video game addiction issue i found that
it is almost useless to confront gamers
with the idea
that negatively viewing video games no
matter how okay so again english is a
second language it's a little bit
confusing
it is almost useless to confront gamers
with a negative view of video games no
matter how logical and obvious the
arguments against video games are
most gamers are simply not mature enough
to understand the importance of other
values in life
so i'm going to pause here
so you see this is both the strength and
the weakness of the bikini
youtuber right
so
what i do
inexorably appeals to a small
audience because i'm out here saying hey
this is what it is to lead a meaningful
life who's with me
again and again again i have my own very
definite sense of what it means to lead
a meaningful life i have a very definite
sense of what it means to be a man
right and some people respond to that
positively
i think it's noteworthy
that a lot of the people who respond to
apostles come out of a
patriarchal religious background
so they're people who are today atheists
but were born and raised hindu they're
people who are today atheists but they
were born and raised muslim
or
eastern orthodox christian or something
i'm aware of this you know i used to use
this hashtag
bronze age values there is an overt
mcchismo to my videos to what i'm saying
about life
there there is a you know in in the
parliaments of our times there is this
man up
aspect to what i do where i'm saying be
a real man
and that applies to you know things like
reading books and caring about your
education how you develop intellectually
yeah it you know relates to questions of
ethics and politics and so on too
and you know by contrast what i do uh
it's extremely unappealing too and quite
rebarbative to uh the stereotypical left
wing in 2021 the vast majority of
left-wing people back when i was making
videos talking about bernie sanders
they pick up on it
and there are people who think i'm
right-wing or think i'm conservative
just because of the mckiswan you know
i get that kind of response where people
can just tell aesthetically somehow
um you know this is incompatible with
the alexandria ocasio-cortez supporting
left of the 21st century now
hashtag spoilers if you don't know
politically i have a lot more in common
with bernie sanders than i have in
common with donald trump if you actually
watch my videos that becomes that
becomes obvious um
you know where i am on exactly on the
left to right spectrum now is is hard to
say but you know very fundamentally i do
care about government caring
i care about government helping the poor
i care about government being by the
poor and for the poor and of the poor
and one of the deepest and most
important differences between left and
right is just in this sense classism the
extent to which the right wing and the
conservatives are activists for
of the aristocratic class and the left
wing at least pretends to engage in
advocacy for the poor and downtrodden
disadvantage so there are many
fundamental ways in which i am left of
center if not left-wing
um
but my point is this
you know if you are a beautiful woman
wearing a bikini and you are making
videos that implicitly or explicitly say
hey
you can be a beautiful woman in a bikini
like me
if you live my lifestyle buy my ebook
pay for my training course eat my diet
emulate me right there's a positive
message there that very often doesn't
have to be
you know explicitly stated
even even someone like kell
even a test bag of course obviously but
who i think i'm thinking of the girl who
went crazy and deleted her youtube
channel s and o'neill essen o'neill
great example you know essen o'neill
shows you how she exercises shows you
her diet her youtube channel is deleted
now she became massively wealthy and
famous this way right where
the positive message and and the
youtuber being a role model it's there
really very powerfully
and then that becomes a kind of
packaging for what's ultimately a very
negative message because the negative
message is hey you yeah you
most of what you're doing in your life
is bad and even wrong like hey you
you should be ashamed of yourself
well like that's that's there too right
but it's it's packaged in the appealing
bikini body
message you know so now what i'm doing
is not a bikini body message and i
literally do get email asking me about
my diet and exercise regimen all right i
now do
uh over 200 push-ups a day and i weigh
over 220 pounds and i do push-ups with
my my feet elevated so for a man who is
in his mid-40s i am in okay shape and by
the way i try to spend too much time at
the gym i don't want to spend three
hours a day at the gym there are all
these things i have other priorities
like reading this stack of books here
i'm learning languages and studying
politics and being a filmmaker and being
an author writing a book there's all
this stuff the life of the mind imposes
on my time in a huge way but in a short
amount of time i want to get a lot of
exercise at the gym so believe it or not
even on that level there are people who
relate to me that way there are people
who are in their mid 40s and they're in
much worse physical shape than i am the
guy who was writing i think he's still
in his 20s the guy who wrote me this
long series of requests asking about
exactly what i eat in my diet
um
so i just say they're not all they're
not all older guys i get younger guys
trading i do not get young women in
bikinis right for this advice um but you
know there are there are men who respond
to it that way
the point is here uh
what i am offering
positively is profoundly out of step
with their times that's why i used to
say you know bronze age values i'm
presenting a bronze age vision
of of masculinity you know
and um a very very small percentage of
people are going to relate to when i'm
what i'm offering positively that way
now you know
who should we compare this to look at
the total degenerates uh who have been
so
you know successful on uh
on youtube look at vaush look at uh
hassan abby
uh who's the other one thinking of
oh god
oh yeah the guy he just used the name
destiny
several people using the name destiny um
all these guys play video games right so
you know i mean in terms of a masculine
role model i mean you look at vaush and
you you think
people want to be like vaush you know
it's just
you really you want to grow up to be
like this guy like whether you're a
younger person
or you're an older guy trying to turn
your life around you want to be like
vaush
really
you know hassan
hassan pike or hassan abby
it's recently
been drawn attention to or discovered
that he sleeps with prostitutes he
admitted sleeping with prostitutes and
paying to go to a brothel and this kind
of thing and that does fit into his
political philosophy he's a left-winger
who believes that sex work is work so on
and so forth a guy like destiny the guy
is and by the way all these people play
video games all these people live a life
of just reckless pointless
self-indulgence i mean sorry hassan abby
he is a multi-millionaire he can sit
there and do a video game live stream
from a left-wing perspective complaining
about how migrant workers have a hard
time well you aren't actually going out
and even interviewing the migrant
workers like just as a journalist you
can just go talk to them about their
lives but you could also help them
because you are literally a
multi-millionaire at this point you've
gotten rich by sharing your moral
opinions of the world you have the
opportunity to make a difference in this
and there's just no
no positive motivation so yeah i wasn't
even getting into that but right sam
walsh writes in oh welcome back sam
sam's a regular viewer uh sam says quote
destiny takes drugs too he mistakenly
took a drug that he thought was mdma but
it turned out to be meth or something
similar
yes so i mean the role of drugs alcohol
video games self-indulgence the way
these guys live their uh sex lives and
let me just say i judge everybody this
way i judge my own father this way like
dude the decisions you made about your
sex life they matter they still count my
father got a fully paid scholarship he
was poor by the way as a kid as my as a
kid my father was poor
came from a single parent family his
mother's job was literally in a steel
factory in a shitty steel manufacturing
town in canada like he was poor
and uh he as he tells the story his
father uh abandoned them
i think i think my grandfather had a
different perspective on that but
regardless
uh
you know my father got a fully paid
scholarship to get a phd studying hindu
philosophy studying hinduism at the
harvard school of world religion he
never stopped eating meat
how can you be serious about hinduism
without being at least some kind of
vegetarian i judge you okay like sorry
bro my dad's dead now yeah i judge you
you know i mean
my father got all these different women
pregnant he wasn't positively involved
in any of his children's lives he wasn't
possibly involved in my life you know i
judge you bro you know these things go
napoleon bonaparte
you know i judge him including by his
sex life it tells you a lot about who
somebody is as a man
so yeah the um
yeah all these people i'm just saying
these these are examples of people who
started off in the same place i did like
not even not that many years ago
i think i mean three years ago i think
vaush wasn't famous yet like it's the
last three years or so he's moved up i
can remember when hassan was a nobody
that's maybe more like five years ago
but all these guys they just came on the
internet and talked about politics and
talked about their feelings talk about
their lives those guys i don't think
you've seen a single book review out of
them like sorry i am making the effort i
am reading by several books right now i
am all the time reading and then making
youtube videos where i'm doing book
reviews and i'm writing a book i'm
actively growing as a person someone
like hassan abby just sits back
passively and talks about what happens
to be on the news this week
different kind of thing but um
you know okay my point is why did they
grow their audience in this way i think
it is precisely because people look at
them and they see
a model of manhood and a model of
adulthood that they can aspire to
emulate
now just give the example if you don't
might as well type
if you don't know who freely is you
might assume the audience for freely is
men who masturbate looking at pictures
of her in a bikini men who are turned on
by looking at her nearly nude it's not
the audience for freely is women who
look at her as a model of what they can
aspire to be that's partly that's just
her body there are women who watch this
and they want to emulate her diet and
exercise and have a similar kind of body
partly
it's also the spirituality
the politics the lifestyle you know
freely
you know her currently her organic
farming regimen right her gardening
regimen
uh
frk
fully raw christina
you know i'm not gonna say zero percent
of christina's audience is men who
masturbate watching these videos but
she's got a lot of competition for that
market there are a lot of places you can
go on the internet to masturbate you
know
um
you know no
in the bulk of her audience is people
who look up to her as a lifestyle model
as something to be emulated you know now
again sir i've already said
this is true of my own audience it's a
small audience but it's a passion of
people i get all kinds of emails from
people saying how i help them turn their
lives around i am a father figure to
several hundred people or a couple
thousand people and i've been an
influence in their lives in that way for
a lot of people i'm the stern demanding
uncompromising father figure that points
his finger at you and says no that's not
good enough the excuses you're making
don't make sense you know man up
and they get out of it whatever they
they get out of it you know so i'm aware
this this critique applies to me also
but i'm saying
what i represent positively the model of
a meaningful life i represent and i give
voice to right there's an incredibly
tiny audience who can appreciate that
and respond to that possibly as opposed
to a bikini youtuber as opposed to
someone like vaush hassan or destiny
right as opposed to someone who's just
living a drugged up self-indulgent
dissipated degenerate life right so this
is one of the ways in which you have to
criticize your own position especially
if the message you have to deliver is
fundamentally negative you know
especially if the message you have to
deliver is you know what you're doing is
not good enough
you know you have to quit video games
you have to stop making excuses you have
to stop doing childish things in your
life so on and so forth you have to have
some kind of higher or more positive
aspiration
um
and obviously sorry so i'm responding
here to an email from val
part of val's problem is that of course
he doesn't represent anything positive
that way i mean you may think you know
he mentions i think he has four children
now you know as a wife and kids you know
so he can try to represent himself as
like a positive
role model just in that he has a job and
a family
that's a very different kind of
youtubing right so you'd have to look up
a youtube channel like family fizz
you know you really want to do that you
really want to show youtube videos like
hey this is me with my wife and kids and
we're so we're so happy
again sorry in each of these categories
the vast majority of people fail the
vast majority of people who try to be a
family youtuber like family fizz this is
me with my kids going to disneyland the
vast majority never get 500 regular
viewers the vast majority of people who
try to be like freely or fully pardon me
or fully raw christina or test bag the
vast majority fail never get 500 viewers
even if they're gorgeous even if they're
incredibly sexy and appealing in other
ways they're they're incredibly athletic
the vast majority felt the vast majority
of former olympic athletes male and
female who start a youtube channel never
get
500 uh of views and
let me be clear the vast majority of
people who try to be vouch the vast
viewer people who try to be hassan abby
the vast droid people who try to miss
the vast majority of them fail right now
there are more meaningful questions
asked there like do you want to succeed
do you want to live this life is this
who you want to be and if you do this
what kind of person are you going to be
five years from now like there's a lot
more to say about that there are a lot
of reasons to not imitate the bikini
youtubers or vaush or what have you um
apart from the question of success or
failure
but at this moment we're talking which
is reaching an audience and changing the
world in this specific way of getting
across a fundamentally negative message
of telling people that the life they're
leading right now is meaningless and
what they're doing is bad and evil and
wrong which is a huge part of the
message i have to deliver to the world
so guys if you haven't seen that look i
could stop now and read this
read this email out
but i had a guy right into me if you
follow me on patreon if you support the
channel on patreon for one dollar a
month you will have already seen this
but i had a guy right into me um
saying that he regularly uses the
addictive drug ketamine
and that he's uh
he's writing a book now about this drug
out so there's the link to it sorry i
just says
i didn't write a lengthy introduction to
what that link shows you
if you click on that link you'll see
that this guy wrote me this letter
and i write back to him very
aggressively calling him a crackhead and
telling him to get his life together and
stop making excuses this is this is a
level of stern rebuke
and reproach that he would never get
from a christian preacher i doubt he
would get this from a muslim imam i
doubt he would get this from a buddhist
monk or a or a hindu leader
now and after he gets uh okay look i'll
read this up so i'm just saying this is
this is delivering a message this is
telling people something they do not
want to hear
he justifies his own drug use and
justifies other people taking this
addictive hallucinogenic drug
by saying that they are fundamentally
unhappy uh with their lives
but changing their lives is more
difficult than just just getting on the
drug you know this is
to summarize his message and i write
back to him and say [ __ ] period i
wasn't happy with my life period i moved
to laos i learned the lotion language i
learned a whole hell of a lot more than
that
what kind of condition was i in five
years later in what way did i benefit
grow or change from that challenge
take a look at yourself adam you've got
a drug habit you've got brain damage and
you've got the excuses you made for it
where are you going to be five years
from now
dead
you're going to be a brain damaged dried
up pathetic shell of a man just five
years from now like all the other
prescriptions psych med junkies
and what condition could you be in today
if you'd made a very different decision
four years ago and you'd moved to laos
learned la ocean did humanitarian work
did some kind of research etc what kind
of man would you be today
that man will never exist
it's already game over for you period
you're trapped in a living death and you
don't even know it yet
period so again just to buzz
your your christian preacher is never
going to say this to you your buddhist
monkeys never your parents are never
gonna say this to you your brother your
girlfriend your wife not even your
ex-wife after you break up we'll say
this to you we'll say to you you are
going to die if you keep using this drug
and you are already trapped in a living
death and you have already squandered or
lost your opportunity to live a
meaningful life and become a better
person all right that is real talk
he isn't paying me doing this for free
but you know this is really giving
people advice they don't want to hear
this is telling somebody something they
don't hear this guy doesn't just use
this drug he's currently writing and
publishing a book encouraging other
people to use this drug to solve their
psychological problems right okay
it is already game over for you period
you're trapped in a living death and you
don't even know it yet and by the way i
do not regard moving to laos as a
positive example it's a terrible idea
and a negative example but it's still
better than what you've signed up for so
you guys can click on the link and read
the whole correspondence because it goes
several several messages long but i just
point out after the next message he
sends to me which is a defensive message
naturally enough what i say back is this
me replying to him again i say prove me
wrong crackhead
you want to lead a meaningful life
you want to make the world a better
place
it starts with sobriety
it starts with self-discipline
by all means prove me wrong
take that manuscript for a pro book you
wrote and burn it
turn your back on all the excuses in the
pages of that book and turn your back on
all the excuses you lived by but were
too ashamed to set down in writing
quitting the drug will be easier than
quitting the excuses you've made for it
prove me wrong tough guy
so i'm just reading that to make it
clear it is obvious in a sense
that
you know i am trying to help him
like i'm not just calling you a
crackhead for no reason and not just
saying you're already dead
i'm saying hey oh oh oh you disagree
okay great
then get motivated get sober
start doing the right thing because it's
the right thing to do
um
[Music]
so anyway again you can click on the
link if you want to see because he
writes back again and i reply again
right
and i'm keeping it all the way real but
look you know okay you want to do what i
do you want to give people advice they
don't want to hear you can make so much
money and have so much fame and wealth
if you just give people advice that they
do want to hear if you tell people what
they already want to hear if you tell
people what they're already doing is
great and wonderful right if you're just
encouraging them encouraging them in
their bad habits right you can make all
kinds of money you can have all kinds of
wealth and fame and success right if you
just come up with that the great the
great left-wing message of the 21st
century you do you do your own thing be
yourself be happy do whatever makes you
happy oh
good for you you go girl you know
if you come out with that [ __ ] okay now
you're telling people things they do
want to hear when you're really keeping
it real with people this way you know
think about it think well think about
what your own expectations are
why should anyone put up with that why
should anyone pay me
for me to tell them they're a [ __ ]
crackhead who's ruined their life
why would you pay me for that why even
the the exercise stuff like you know
look i can set up a website i can start
doing coaching like if you want this
level of honesty and coaching they want
to pay me a hundred dollars to have me
coach them
doing push-ups
basically i'm just going to tell you
you're a lazy piece of [ __ ] like well if
there's no art to it there's no science
to it you have to you have to do it
right you just have to actually [ __ ]
do it admit there's a little bit of
advice you can give people about you
know i'm sorry melissa no i melissa
couldn't lift five pounds we got
together i've given melissa her whole
gym and exercise yeah i remember i
remember you couldn't do an arm curl
with five pounds and now yesterday you
did 20 push-ups but when melissa and i
got together she could not do one
push-up she had no she had no upper body
strength or lower body strength she
wasn't amazingly poor and she'd never
exercise in her life
and i showed her how to use weights and
i showed you this stuff so i have a
little bit of experience training
someone uh to have you know fundamental
core strength now now she can go from 20
push-ups to 200 push-ups
she can catch up with me although with
each push-up she's raising a lot less
weight than i am because i weigh a hell
of a lot
but anyway look like you know
i can't expect people to pay me
for
exercise advice or diet advice when what
i have to say is you're a terrible
person you know who is go and again we
have a cultural expectation
because our religions christianity
judaism islam hinduism like buddhism a
lot of them are based on a patriarchal
figure
a you know a priest a buddhist monk
whatever standing there and telling you
that what you're doing is bad and evil
and wrong that you're a terrible person
that you're not living up to the
standards and people pay them they get
money and fame and respect right it's
it's a remarkable incongruous thing so
it's somewhat natural to have that bleed
over into our expectations for for
social media so let me give you a great
example we have 41 people in the
audience right now and only 18 of you
have hit thumbs up so the rest of you
are sitting there just fuming the rest
of
you so why didn't more of you hit thumbs
up maybe now we have 42 people maybe
it's because you really don't appreciate
me telling you what a lazy piece of [ __ ]
you
maybe if you are watching
vosh maybe if you were watching destiny
maybe if you were watching freely the
banana girl or fully rock christina
telling you that you were a wonderful
person
hi guys thanks for tuning in i'm so glad
you joined me today you know you guys
light up my life it makes me so happy to
sit here and talk to you [ __ ] losers
who i would never meet up with for
coffee in real life not even if you paid
me
hit that share like and subscribe button
like no
you know i'm i'm keeping it real i'm
going to give it to you raw you know
there was a uh there was a joke religion
called the church of subgenius so it was
partly a satire of other religions and
it partly was a real religion unto
itself and uh they they created this uh
meme
which is
i don't practice what i preach
because i'm not the kind of person i
preach to
[Laughter]
there's a whole lot of that going on in
social media so look so none of you guys
want to give this want to give this
video a thumbs up which would help other
people discover it during the live
stream if you have 40 people in the
audience and all 40 hit thumbs up
youtube circulates it more and then you
get more people doing it but
do i really care i mean it is what it is
i i again this relates back to the main
point of this video how many i'm not
deluded how many people do you think
want to tune in and hear me saying oh
you've got a drug drug habit it's your
fault you know oh gee you can't do 200
push-ups you're lazy it's your fault
like i'm saying on every single topic
you can't get your diet together oh gee
you're celibate you can't have positive
relationships with women or with the
opposite sex or whatever you're into
with the same sex oh gee you've got
sexual guess whose fault it is guess who
i'm gonna like guess what kind of
positive encouragement you're gonna get
from me right like a so much of what i
do under so many different headings is
telling people what they don't wanna
hear so much of what i do in politics is
telling people what they don't want to
hear oh gee oh oh gee
you you lost the war in afghanistan oh
but you know what matters is that you
tried your best what the [ __ ] think
about how demented our coverage of the
afghan war is
uh i i you know i showed up thucydides
all the time but i was reading uh
deodorance the other day he's another
historian of this period in ancient
greece and rome he does ancient greece
he does ancient rome he does more than
just that ancient mediterranean europe
and you know the level of detail with
which he is talking about every year
of a 25-year long war the war between
athens and sparta year by year season by
season month by month and then they had
this battle and then this happened and
this happened in international diplomacy
right
and you see the level of involvement
people in athens had democratically that
they are going week after week to debate
this in their connects in their
equivalent to the parliament because
they have direct democracy they're
directly involved in debating who should
we appoint as the military general who
should be the commander for the navy
they're really involved in the war step
by step month by month for 25 years
what do you think i'm going to say to
americans none of you can name a single
[ __ ] battle from the afghan war
you're a 20-year war
19 years to be fair
19 years of war none of you were
involved in any way none of you learned
the language look at the great
universities of the united states oh yes
uh uh today washington dc new york and
los angeles are all great centers for
excellence in afghan and central asian
studies these have become the major foci
of learning the languages history and
culture of afghanistan and central asia
no like you know the reasons for the
failure are written all over the face of
the american public look at the [ __ ]
cross section of the american mind why
do you think you guys lost the war in
afghanistan like well let's really get
into a meditation what a bunch of
[ __ ] losers you are that in 20 years
with over you know with hundreds of
millions of dollars per year budget over
a hundred years with a seemingly
infinite budget you couldn't conquer an
enemy you couldn't really win an enemy
that had nothing but handguns and they
had no navy they're landlocked they had
no air force right you couldn't take
that down bottomless budget a huge
technological advantage you have a much
larger population and at the start of
the war you had the support of all of
western europe you had this part of
basically every almost every civilized
country in the world was supporting
america's war effort back in 2001 2002
and you squandered that support also it
wasn't america
yeah my point is what i have to say even
about something like the war in
afghanistan is unbelievably unpopular
nobody wants to hear it conservatives
don't want to hear it the left foot
doesn't hear it the senator doesn't hear
i'm giving you advice you don't want to
hear under every [ __ ] heading
unlike vaush
unlike destiny unlike bernie sanders
unlike alexandria cortez or something
right like whether like no matter what
example we we look to you see it was
like now there's a sense in which these
things are related i mean i think that
what i have to say about video games
what i have to say about alcohol what i
have to say about drugs what i have to
say about sex
i think it is related
you know in a deep way to why it is that
my message about politics is so
unpopular because we live in a world
where most people wanna they wanna be
asleep while they're walking around on
two feet they wanna they wanna live in a
dream
and my message is all the time no wake
up face up to reality you know what i'm
saying
uh uh okay so oh now here's okay now we
have to digress to answer this question
raphael asks i wonder if this is a
hebrew name
um
probably an abbreviated hearing so
raphael asks 200 push-ups in how many
sets if i may ask so i think about doing
a video about this all the time i may do
at some point but so sometimes i'm doing
30 push-ups someone's doing 20 push-ups
uh and i'm gonna tell you why under
certain circumstances it's it's just ten
push-ups so when you're doing 200 i'm
doing this with my feet way the hell
elevated
but so these are my feet and these are
my hands so my body's at a slant but
between every set i'm changing the
elevation of my feet up and down and i
also change the grip
so as soon as you're doing with your
your hands like this as soon as your
hands are lower down relative to your
your torso and then sometimes i do with
hammer grips on a bench so your hands
are really close together where you're
pushing up and that's very different and
the other point is you're doing it to
exhaustion so if you're doing sets of 30
uh you know you know the point is if at
the beginning you're doing sets of 30
later you're doing a different hand grip
and you're more exhausted you're doing
20 and 10 and stuff so yeah
all right so that is my that is my
digression on uh on doing 200 plus
push-ups is that i'm mixing it up and by
the way that's why you get so much
exercise out of push-ups if you just do
push-ups in the same posture whether
that's with your feet elevated or your
feet on the ground you're not getting
that much exercise but when you're
changing the angle a lot and you're
changing your grip
then you you really get a hell of a
workout of doing push-ups and you know
my gym most gyms don't have a bench
press on multiple angles you just bench
press at one angle so that's a big uh
that's a big you know
so look here's another comment noel says
shout out to noel for this comment now i
do get comments like this that are well
intentioned sometimes noel says isil
could increase his fan base on youtube
by 500 times easily if he just decided
to sell out a bit then it gives me a
smiley face i don't believe it noel i'm
just being real with you i don't believe
it it's it's i you know i can take a
compliment you know thank you
but
you know
think
it's very hard i mean look even the
videos i did it's a great example
actually i think about it do you guys
remember i did some videos about the tv
show the mandalorian
so this is a sequel to star wars right
even what i have to say about the
mandalorian is in the same way like
profoundly unpopular and it's telling
people things they don't want to hear
and uh i i remember this about the last
video i met the mandalorian the last
video i made about the tv show the
middleware and i remember this about the
last video i made or one of them about
uh game of thrones a song by far i think
it was the last video another thing
though okay i remember getting a kind of
fan mail message from the audience
saying hey
like i saw your video on the mandalorian
but i didn't want to watch it because i
know your critique is going to point out
things that are wrong with the show
and then once i see them i can't unsee
them and i can't enjoy the show
like someone writing and saying i know
that you're right but i don't want to
hear it like i want to imagine the show
is better than it is and i remember the
last video i did about game of thrones
song about sorry if it's not the last
the second last or something but you
know
um
yeah i remember someone writing in it
was the video i did which was like
look here are really logical problems
that's right it was about the books it
was both the errors and the things that
are wrong in the books the books the tv
show was based on and i remember a
couple people writing and saying dude
like you're right but i don't want to
hear it i don't want i don't even want
to listen someone
right someone who listened to five
minutes of the video and stopped and was
like dude like i see i see you know your
stuff you know what right but i don't
so even litter records if you say if you
say i could sell out i have viewers in
my audience still to this day who
discovered my channel because the videos
i made about a song of ice and fire game
of thrones there's no doubt that did
expand my audience but even then you
know i kind of can't sell out i'm uh you
know i i i i'm not it's not really going
to increase size pockets so there you go
so uh
basugi
i assume this is a korean name
bei silgi yeah well
it's been a long time i did study korean
way back in the day
but it's been a long time since i've
studied korean so i can't attempt to
pronounce this
anyway uh besogi says and it's been long
times of being to korea too i have fond
memories of being in korea
uh quote yes isil could sell out and get
views but his mess his message is the
antithesis to what people believe like
he said most people want to be in an
illusion close quote um and the other
thing is the people who are promoting
the illusion on the other side it's a
crowded market you know it really is
like there there's a there are already a
lot of people doing that and the vast
majority of people who uh
who try you know fail so no i'm i'm just
i'm just very skeptical about that
um but look there are areas so let me
just make this clear before i gotta
return to val's email message
there are areas in which i unironically
and positively
have a message to share with the world
that's not uh harsh or cynical or
approachable
and i think that writing children's
stories book storybooks is an example
that i want to write and publish
storybooks for children that have a
positive message for children and that i
think parents will recognize as a
positive message a lot of the same stuff
i'm saying here well so look here's okay
this is deep okay disclaimer okay i'm
warning you
okay you've got a trigger warning
trigger warning this is deep
the same people
who watch a degenerate youtuber like
destiny
watch you degenerate youtube were like
vouch and who think i want to live this
guy's lifestyle i want to be like this
guy you know the same people who watch
hassan abby and approve of hassan abby
going to sleep with prostitutes and what
those people
if they are raising a child they don't
want their child to turn out that way
even if they're fine with turning out
that way themselves right that's the
bizarre paradox which is that if you
write a children's story book that's
encouraging children
to be hard-working and sober right let's
just keep it at that
encouraging children to be more
intellectual more erudite right to care
less about the pleasures of the senses
to care less about self-indulgence right
if you write children's story books with
that message all kinds of parents will
pick up that story but go oh wow this is
great for my kid this is great for my
niece or nephew right this is a good
message for kids
but if you as an adult talk to other
adults that way they'll say this is a
terrible message for me i don't
i for me myself no i want to live a life
of total self-indulgence i want to be a
degenerate like they don't want to hear
that they don't want to apply themselves
if you just say to someone like look you
know
you can lead a better life you can lead
a more meaningful life you can stop you
know making excuses you know
etc you know
uh people get defensive and people get
offensive people say how dare you say
that to me but if it's in a children's
story book they respond to possibly
because they think it's a good message
for their own kids now that's not the
only example i totally think i could
make a spy movie you know you can call
it a james bond movie i don't mean the
actual character dreams but make an
entertaining spy thriller
that reflects my understanding of
american politics probably also my
understanding of chinese politics and
soviet russian politics whatever
whatever period it's said you know that
reflects the fact that i have all these
decades of knowledge about politics
frankly i know there's gonna sound word
i could write a spy thriller that's set
in ancient greece that said in ancient
rome you could have a spy movie that's
set in the peloponnesian war you know
with al qaeda's and his skullduggery and
the persian empire and athens and sparta
but any case whether you're talking
about a 21st century or
uh 2000 years ago you know i could make
a movie that's entertaining for people
and that has this kind of moral and this
kind of message and people will respond
to that possibly and they do people go
and watch corny movies that tell them
positive things in this sense that tell
them to be a better person and they
respond to that positively whereas you
know again so a great example can
contrast me to tana marcho
you know i i understand why people
respond so positively to tenemos that's
what they want to be they want to be a
lazy self-indulgent drug addicted person
they want to be a vain
shallow person who just lives a life of
sex and drugs i'm sorry but when you
think about the word degenerate
if tana mongeau's current lifestyle is
not degenerate what is you know people
want that for themselves and a lot of
people they work a job five days a week
then one day a week they live like tana
mongeau and then one day a week they're
hungover and recovering from it so they
can go back to their job on monday but
that's a mass phenomenon not very many
people live like tana martial seven days
a week but a lot of people they are
working for the weekend they live like a
total degenerate one day a week maybe
two days a week and then they have to
clean up and get back to work and 10
years go by and that's their whole
[ __ ] life and they haven't they
haven't met any
there haven't been any progress
anyway i could tell a whole bunch of
stories now but people i know like that
people people who were not drug addicts
people who didn't ever go to rehab or
something but they were you know they
were quote unquote moderate drug users
moderate alcohol drinkers
but that's it 10 years go by and they've
been at a complete standstill just
working a nine-to-five job and this kind
of uh this kind of degenerate
self-indulgence but anyway look sir my
point was here
you know directly people are never going
to respond to me in my life positively
the way they respond to tanima show nor
the way they respond to tess begg we're
showing a test bag a lot in this video
she's already burnt out and quit youtube
she doesn't upload anymore but she made
a lot of money
back when she did you know i i
understand that and i accept that but i
think it's interesting that when you
just clothe it in narrative fiction
whether that's a children's story book
or a spy movie or an action movie i
could do a kung fu movie too you know
sorry by the way i mean writing
directing producing i'm not going to be
the kung fu star myself maybe i'd have a
role as a uh maybe i'd make a cameo
appearance in the background of my kung
fu movie you know but you know i know so
much about buddhist uh philosophy and so
on i could do a kung fu movie in that
kind of setting east meets west uh
setting what was that the movie that had
jackie chan and an african-american
actor
rush hour rush hour yeah yeah yeah yeah
the next
next rush hour
movie
written by eisel mizzard
i could totally do an east meets west
kung fu movie that has a lot of these
philosophical points and then
people would accept it but exactly what
people don't want to hear is what i had
in that
i'm just giving you the link again
it's like exactly what i the kind of
disruptive honesty
that you see if you click on that link
that's what people don't want to hear
they don't want to cope with they want
the kind of soft encouraging approach of
tana mongeau
uh or what have you you know they they
don't want to deal with this kind of
disruptive honesty
okay just glance at your comments before
i go back to this guys melissa if you
want to jump in there's a chance
yeah so common sense skeptic says quote
movies are tricky to sell
if you figure that out share how you did
it written three and they're still
shocked okay okay okay common sense
i am a fan of your youtube channel i am
i am but come on bro come on anyone
anyone who looks at your youtube channel
anyone who even hears the the interview
i had with you nobody would think you
are that dude who can sit down in a
pitch meeting in hollywood and sell your
script and i'm just keeping it real with
you uh common sense catholic so i've
been into comedy since i was a teenager
you know and i may go back to now doing
stand-up comedy doing live stand-up
cards i cannot imagine you getting on
stage and rocking the microphone i can't
imagine you doing the pitch meeting i
can't imagine you doing stand-up i i
just can't see you in that role now look
you have all kinds of advantages over me
i mean
you know i i don't do physics
calculations you know there are all
kinds of ways in which i never developed
my mind and you know i tried there was a
time when i was a younger man when i was
interested in in physics and so on
there are other paths i could have gone
in life but bro it does not surprise me
in the least that you have failed to
make it as as a screenplay right
and look the ultimate thing is bro so
i'm saying this to common sense skeptic
but this goes to everyone in the
audience if you want to succeed
you have to enjoy failure you have to
enjoy failing again and again and again
it's a great comparison you can say that
with stand-up comedy and you can say
that with writing directing and
producing movies right oh you want to
have a successful movie how about you do
10 failures first that's how it works
right so oh gee you wrote three scripts
okay why don't you move to la go on a
website like model mayhem get some
non-union actors get some models to play
the parts get out there film it put it
together maybe achieve the same uh level
of professionalism as the troma pictures
or you know a crappy youtube channel
like angry video game nerd you know do
some really low budget you know
filmmaking how about you do that five or
ten times and then succeed and you know
if you want to do stand-up comedy if you
want to audition as an actor i've said
this years ago on my channel i'm talking
about this five years ago okay i hope
you enjoy getting on stage and telling a
joke and nobody laughs
you gotta have that experience ten times
you know you've gotta you've gotta get
up on stage and fail and you've gotta
learn from the failure or accept it or
grow from it you've gotta embrace that
you know and you've got to audition for
parts again and again again even if
you're an ugly middle-aged man there are
a lot of movie roles for ugly
middle-aged men you've got to go and do
that again again so you've got to love
the process and you've got to love
failure so no look it's great having
common sense kept in the audience i'm
happy to have them here and i do i
believe i've watched pretty much every
single video on his channel which adds
up to a lot of hours i'm still waiting
for the plot twist i'm waiting for the
plot twist where he admits that he's
wrong and that actually elon musk's
solar energy project is wonderful and
it's going to be a great success
there may be you don't know what's going
to happen next in this story you know
or maybe the plot twist is that elon
musk goes to jail
[Laughter]
but uh anyway no i i do i do uh enjoy
his youtube channel although i watch it
skeptically but yeah you know um
uh
it's uh look i mean the great thing
about living in in the time we're living
in now is i'm writing a book right now
and it's it's whatever it's 95 finished
um
you know
i'm writing this book and there already
is a built-in audience for it there are
already people who know what to expect
and you want to read what i have to say
because they know me through youtube
that's something that didn't exist
500 years ago or 200 years ago that's
really the wonderful thing but it's so
so sorry my point is here
the relationship between my personality
and the reading audience the fact that
people have some sense of sympathy for
me and some sense of
interest in me
that's what sells the book right and i
don't know maybe 300 people read the
book maybe 500 people read the book
maybe 1 000 people read the
book i used to work in publishing i used
to work in non-fiction publishing we had
all kinds of great books never sold 100
copies never sold 500 copies like in 10
years they don't sell five of cups so it
may sound like a small number but if you
really have that connection people but i
think in that same way that's social
media made everything else more like
hollywood
the reality is if you are pitching a
script you have a one paragraph
description of what that script is like
hey here's my idea for a movie and for
the most part you actually are selling
your own personality right you're not
really selling the script you're not
really selling the book right it's that
people are interested in you and people
care about you so they're they're
interested in in what you they're
interested in the spy movie you're going
to write like oh okay so look you know
so you can imagine when you're pitching
the script you are picturing your
personality okay so you're a guy who
used to be a scholar of buddhism you
lived in thailand laos and cambodia and
now you've written this action movie and
and you have a background in political
science and whatever and you're this
youtuber okay and now you've written
this action movie that has buddhist
themes it deals with how the cia really
works in the real world the kind of
debunking of popular misconceptions with
us yeah okay this is what you're
bringing together so that's what you're
selling you know that's your song in a
pitch in the same way that people read
my book because they've seen my youtube
videos and they have some sympathy for
me or some curiosity in me they're
willing to hear my hear my uh
perspective
um
in that same way you know most most of
uh making movies even on the level of
motivating your own actors right you got
to go and pitch to someone
you're hiring someone on model mayhem
for 300 dollars so you're paying next to
nothing for someone to come make your
movie you it really is your personality
that people are buying into
okay
um
questions about where people can buy the
book the book is not available yet i
assume i am just going to dump it on
amazon it will be purchased from
amazon.com that is my assumption at this
time
and i'm talking to someone there's a
husband and wife couple
who tell me they're going to translate
it into spanish so the interests know
how quickly they work i think it'd be
really amusing to have it published in
spanish and english bilingual right off
the bat but if not maybe the spanish
version will be published separately so
you guys know i have a long a long
history with
translating my videos into other
languages and reaching a huge audience
that way too let me tell you think about
how many people watch my videos that are
in russian
i do have a couple videos in russian let
alone a german etc
all right um
okay so we're continuing with valve's
email here
uh most gamers are simply not mature
enough to understand the importance of
other values in life their mindset works
via a simple system of coordinates such
as pursuing immediate pleasure and
avoiding immediate punishment it comes
back to things we talked about an hour
ago here
and they are just not ready to accept
any other concepts or values at their
current psychological age
so they just say something irrational
confirming their bias protecting video
games since it is their main value and
shut down
this leaves me with two choices
one
to continue to tell people the explicit
truth in which my negativity toward
video games can hardly be ignored in
this case my audience would be mainly
mature parents or gamers who are already
prepared to quit playing video games by
their life circumstances which is a tiny
minority or two to stop explicitly being
negative to stop explicitly studying
warnings against video games and to use
a more subtle approach like focusing uh
pardon me like focusing on helping
gamers to solve their life problems
which are of course caused by playing
video games
and then when solving these problems
maybe the viewers in the audience maybe
these video game players will take
actions that help them to
recognize and overcome their addiction
he says quote i believe that the second
approach can lead to significantly
better results in the first one and will
help people that would have never even
thought about quitting video games
before so close quote
um
but
what you're saying here
is that dishonesty is better than
honesty
right
you know
why did i quit
buddhism
i didn't want to be part of a religion
that was based on a lie
and this is relevant to what comes up in
this in this email in the next and final
paragraph okay what if you said the same
thing to me but you said well the really
effective way to get people to quit
playing video games is to have them
convert to islam
to believe that there is this god
watching over them all the time
right now even if in some sense that's
true
it's a terrible truth and morally i'm
not willing to do it and you know what
are any of us worth what's the point of
any of this
if what we're going to do is live a lie
or convince other people to live life
like either you believe
that cutting off part of your penis
to satisfy the god that muhammad
communicated with
uh through the angel gabriel like you
know like either you believe that is
true or you don't i do think it is good
and helpful to lead people into that
illusory way of of life or you don't
right so so
i'm saying this this very concept of
what would be more effective
may be misleading or maybe
counterproductive and let's bring this
back even to uh
let's bring this back even the tanama
show
how did tana mongeau become famous in
the first place how did she connect with
an audience it was through honesty
it was to keeping it real i can remember
tana mongeau just sitting and talking
about working in a clothing store when
she was a teenager and i'm sorry i
forget if it was hot topic or forever 21
but it was some normal clothing store in
a shopping mall
and she became the manager of this store
you know she got some kind of promotion
as opposed to just being a sales girl
and her sitting there and talking about
folding sweaters and what this job was
like and that was really real that was
really honest
and i mean she she came out as a as a
storyteller and that's what people
connected to
do you think tana mongeau would have
been more successful if she came on
youtube and was living a lie was
presenting something fundamentally
dishonest something fundamentally untrue
now you can think of something that's
that's
radically ridiculously untrue like uh
like islam like the muslim faith like
praying or like circumcision or
something that's one kind of falsehood
right but there were other kinds of
falsehoods too like what you're what
you're suggesting
yeah you know
now sorry you guys are going to see in
one second here why i'm raising this
a lot of people convert to buddhism on
the basis of false promises and
misrepresentations about buddhism people
lie about what the religion is people
lie about the history of their religion
you know so and so forth
um
people lie about meditation people lie
about what meditation is and what the
benefits of meditation can be right
but people who are attracted to that
they're not attracted to buddhism
they're attracted to the lie and a lot
of times they get quite committed
they'll pay for a package vacation
they'll pay for a meditation retreat
they'll get involved with buddhism up to
some extent
and then they they figure it out oh okay
this is what was advertised and that
this is the reality of what the religion
is i would assume sid is also about
mormonism scientology
a lot of religions you know ancient and
modern
um
why do you think you would make progress
this way by living a lie by portraying a
lie by fundamentally being dishonest
with the audience i think especially
when you're talking about youtube
like honesty is the only currency we've
got the only thing we can
you know the only thing of value here on
youtube
is honesty
earnestness you know the the immediacy
of sharing in someone else's life
through the glowing screen that is what
tana mongeau had going
uh in her favor
and that's what i had going in my favor
and what what do i have to offer my
audience really what's the value of this
you know
um if what i were doing were false or
phony anyway which is one of the reasons
why i find the kind of conspiracy
theories about my life so hilarious and
ridiculous you know um
if this were insincere it would be
nothing worth
so you know i say again my old my old
catchphrase you know honesty is the is
the only currency we've we've got
um
all right here's a funny comment from
the audience uh
vassel kolarov said
um
quote i tried to convince my ex-marxist
friend who is now a utilitarian to quit
playing video games and go sober it was
a waste of time unfortunately okay but
what's interesting is you're telling me
this is someone who already quit marxism
right
now
okay we're talking about sobriety we're
talking about quitting playing video
games a couple years ago everyone was
reflecting on the significance of the
alt-right phenomenon in american
politics
and one of the most consistent patterns
with the alt-right was that guys would
convert to this ideology that would
immediately start hitting the gym
they would become sober they would quit
video games they would quit so-called
degenerate activities they'd become
these highly motivated you know right
wingers with a shorter sharper haircut
they'd start dressing better they'd
start wearing fancy suits and they'd
start reading about and talking about
ancient rome now like a lot of people
observe this they're like oh well my son
or my grandson you know he totally
turned his life around like i noticed
these changes in him but then i was
really concerned because it's like he's
kind of sort of becoming a neo-nazi he's
getting involved with this crazy
right-wing ideology and the interesting
thing is too when those people lost
faith in the alt-right when they lost
faith in this right-wing fat ideology
a lot of them went back to being
schlumpy being out of shape they grow a
beard they wear a lumberjack shirt they
go back to playing video games they go
back to doing drugs you know they go
back to sleeping around there's an
aspect of sexual morality in this so
i just say
you know
and we're talking about honesty here
i would not even be willing to
talk about people converting to marxism
or like you know becoming converted to a
political ideology in order to quit
video games or in order to quit alcohol
and sorry so guys i haven't talked that
much about veganism in this video but i
was just saying to melissa yesterday we
were having a totally different
conversation i said look when you look
at vegans you look at people who become
vegan
look at people who drop out of
veganism
um
you can make the right decision
for the wrong reasons
but it never lasts like if you choose to
become sober because you became some
kind of fascist you became some kind of
right-wing alt-righter right i'm saying
that won't last there are people who
become vegan for quote-unquote spiritual
reasons they believe something
supernatural you know and you can do
that for a time but it doesn't last
those are the people who go back to
eating meat you can become vegan because
you want to be sexually attractive you
want to be hot you want to look good in
a bikini it doesn't last when you do the
right thing for the right reasons it
lasts your
your whole life long
you know um and when you do the wrong
thing surprise me when you do the right
thing for the wrong reasons um i think
it's it's tremendously fragile because
it only lasts as long as your your
commitment to these these these
illusions these these self-deceptions
you know it relies on you lying to
yourself lying to others and living a
lie
and then sooner or later
you know sooner or later that that
illusion starts to crumble and then your
whole sense of morality the ethos of the
life you've been living crumbles along
with it
and again i've seen this within buddhism
i've seen it within communism seen it
within you know so-called secular
worldviews like communism left-wing
worldviews where people really want to
live a lie that want to believe
uh something that could never be true
and then at some point you know at all
it all falls apart and then you'll
return to whatever it is you'll return
to drinking alcohol playing video games
sleeping with prostitutes whatever it is
you manage to quit in the name of for
the sake of this this higher cause this
hallowed abstraction that you believe in
and yeah i am saying
in response to val's email no that's not
the way forward the way forward has got
to be a kind of radical disruptive
honesty instead it's got to be something
something authentic in earnest
because on youtube that's all we've got
um
okay so now this is the final sentence
or two of his email quote
this second approach is successfully
used by dr k
on his healthy gamer gg youtube channel
he never confronts uh video gamers he
says that he still plays video games
himself but all his content primes
gamers to find better values in life
than video games he then says he'd be
grateful if i'd give my opinion on
these choices he's mentioned
okay
dr k
is the worst kind
of hindu
spiritual merchant
and i have already made videos pointing
this out
if you watch his videos you can pick up
on this if you join his discord server
it's even more obvious
but he is peddling the worst kind of
um
diluted
hindu spirituality to a predominantly
white western audience okay
i do regard dr k as someone just as evil
as a youtuber trying to convert people
to scientology that's a good example
it's a good parallel
um
what he is saying about meditation
and yoga
and the vedas and the yogi's and the
upanishads okay it's not
harmless
it's much more dangerous than a
christian preacher
quoting the bible and the impacts this
is going to have on people's lives
are really really negative and really
really significant
so from my perspective like the best
case scenario for what dr k is doing is
that he reaches out to these people
they may be young people or they may be
older people who are at a very low level
of intellectual sophistication they may
be fully grown adults but who are dumb
enough they have teenage enough
attitudes that they're they're
susceptible
that he reaches out to these people and
he draws them in
with this web of lies to this
combination of hindu orthodoxy and
hippie
spirituality right
that in the same way that i just
described someone signing up for
buddhism
not because they really understand what
buddhism is but because of an
intentional misrepresentation of
buddhism
they sign up for a fictional version of
this religion this ideology and just
like
these neo-nazis and just like some of
these communists for a short time
they're highly motivated they're highly
motivated to purify themselves so they
can live up to the standards set by this
abstract ideal they believe in right but
sooner or later
their belief in that ideal crumbles or
they realize what an illusion that is or
they just contrast two different
versions of the illusion
like oh well this is what dr k says
about the upanishads and the vedas
but now i've actually taken the time
i've actually read the upanishads videos
i've read some scholarly work and some
essays explain oh oh this is the actual
history of hinduism this has happened
again and again and again
a guy named uh rajneesh
who later used the name osho osho you
know um as a spiritual leader he created
this crazy diluted like version of
hinduism for westerners that among other
things was pro-sexual freedom it
encouraged you to to sleep around to
some extent uh not recklessly by the way
but compared to real hinduism in india
it was certainly a
very liberal sexual lifestyle that his
his followers
were entitled to to to commit to okay
but at some point even the most devout
believers in osho they actually go to
india they see the reality of the caste
system they see the reality of this
tremendously repressive patriarchal
religion they see the reality of the
status of women in hinduism you know
etcetera etcetera this happens again and
again throughout so many different
religious groups both both ancient both
ancient and modern right
all that you're doing is asking people
to commit to what's fundamentally an
unsustainable illusion you're asking
them to do the right thing for the wrong
reasons and so ultimately it it cannot
last
in the end
what is discredited is your ideology
what is discredited is the hallowed
abstraction whatever people who believe
in and
you
are discredited yourself
sooner or later each and every one of
these people has to figure out that dr k
doesn't know what he's talking about
when he quotes the vedas dr k doesn't
know what he's talking about he talks
about the yogis and yoga dr k doesn't
know what he's talking about when he
discusses the upanishads he also likes
to talk about buddhist philosophy
sometimes he doesn't really know
anything about buddhism and
you're gonna figure out that dr k
doesn't really know
what he's talking about when he's
talking about
quitting video games all right
the hardest road to take
is that narrow path of inviting people
to do the right thing
just because it's the right thing to do
right but that is the most durable path
and now i've i've been on youtube long
enough around eight years more than
seven years okay
i have been on youtube long enough that
there were people who came to this
channel and they heard about that
ancient narrow path
that they heard about doing the right
thing because it's the right thing to do
and they really didn't hear it
they're like [ __ ] this
unsubscribe close youtube window they go
away
and five years later they remember it
and they come back and they say to me
you know what you were really on to
something you're right like years have
gone by they've believed in different
illusions they've embraced different
ideals they've tried different things
but you know what
the really simple uncomfortable
fundamental truths you were talking
about on your youtube channel
yeah you know what and it may be five
years later and maybe 10 years later and
it may be 15 years later
really dealing with doing the right
thing because it's the right thing to do
it is not going to bring you fame it is
not going to bring you money it's not
going to bring you tens of thousands of
of
youtube subscribers right but it's
always going to be better than selling
people an illusion than selling people a
dream
above and beyond talking about sobriety
versus drug use sobriety versus alcohol
you know above and beyond the difference
between self-discipline
and self-indulgence
above and beyond something very specific
like you know video game edition
we are talking about the extent to which
you want to live your life in a dream
or the extent to which you really want
to live your life awake
as an adult
dealing with reality
there's way more public demand for the
peddlers of dreams than the peddlers of
reality even when it comes down to
something as narrow as talking about
sobriety
you know talking about doing the right
thing because they're into there are
more people today who are making money
telling you to quit drinking alcohol or
quit doing drugs for the sake of your
immortal soul so you can go to heaven
after you die they're always going to
outnumber the people who are talking
about the real reasons to be sober and
the real you know the real reasons by
using alcohol or even by using
antidepressants prescription medications
and drugs why those are negative things
in your life right the illusion the
dream it's always gonna be you know more
more popular than reality there's gonna
be more money more fame
more you know there's a bigger audience
for that right but no of the two options
you've presented me with here val
i think there's only one that's that's
viable right
and
why is that
you can't really put yourself in the
position of telling the audience to do
the right thing just because the right
thing to do
if you aren't
doing that yourself
and
as strange as it may seem i think that
is the kind of authenticity someone like
tana mongeau had on her channel when she
first got started
and that's you know
that's what i've got going for me here
on this youtube channel you know today
and
you know being honest
is not the same thing as being
right
you know you can be wrong
and you can be honest about it you can
fail
again and again and again
um
being honest
doesn't mean you you know all the
answers
but um
you know being honest means at least
that you're going to sit down with your
audience
and really deal with the implication of
these of these questions